I've never had, except when I tried to do a little lobbying, I found I greatly disliked that and I was treated very rudely.
The fellow didn't get reelected from a district in Fort Worth.
He had a bunch of printers in his district who donated an awful lot of printing because of what he was doing to his opponent.
My dealings with them have always been when they wanted something I was in a position to do.
Among the many lessons I learned, I'm very willing to, when I run things, to have them introduced.
If we know they're there, just let us know, you know.
Some of you like better than you like others.
It's always difficult to do anything with Phil Graham.
It's difficult to do some things with Joe Barton, and yet Joe himself has always been very pleasant to work with.
All right.
Looking back over all these years, did you ever feel that the fact that you were a woman led to any different treatment here on the campus?
Better or worse?
Depends on what it was.
Sometimes it was better, sometimes it was worse.
Can you give any examples?
I think women
can get away with saying things sometimes that another man can't get away with saying.
You can couch it in such a way, saying things that perhaps need to be said, but that a man would get pretty defensive if another man said it or did it.
By the same token, I think men are far too quick to want to come to the aid of a woman who has a problem and to solve it for her.
and that doesn't do anybody any good.
I had...
How do you get in a touchy area?
I'm not sure I want to talk about that.
Okay.
Did anybody ever attempt in your early years to tell you how you should dress or anything like that?
No.
Nobody?
Nobody assumed that role?
No.
Okay.
Not at all.
And did anybody ever infer that you got the job only because you were a woman?
Yes.
Because I'm assuming that none of us would like to hear that.
I had a couple of people even suggest that there was a personal relationship that was the reason I got a job.
One of them was angry when he said it, and I suggested he
Well, first of all, I didn't answer.
And finally he came back.
He was over the telephone.
He came back and said, I didn't mean that.
I said, I didn't think you did, but you might want to take it up with either David or Mac Prescott if you wish.
Now, in those early years, you had three children in school.
And how did you arrange that?
Did you get them always off to school?
before you came?
David was nice about sharing that.
Okay.
And I've always been able to work full eight hours out of the
I did not know Ed Kerber when I started working for him.
I knew his wife.
I knew Peggy.
And I recognized Ed if he was with Peggy.
There's Peggy and her husband.
What's his name?
But Ed told me when I first went to work for him that, of course, Peggy worked and they had five children.
He said he fully realized that there were some things a working mother had to do that couldn't be done before eight and after five.
And as long as it didn't get out of hand, that was fine.
And I appreciated that very, very much, and I've tried to remember that with others.
Sometimes it was a problem.
I don't think I ever forgot what came first in my life, and that was my family.
As the boys got older, essentially how we worked it out in our household is that David and the boys kept house and I cooked.
Then we finally started hiring part of that done, so.
All right.
Looking back on those years and now, are there some things that we should be doing differently regarding women professionals here at A&M?
Well, it'd be nice if they were paid and promoted at the same standards in the faculty side.
All right, you're saying you don't think they are?
No.
Okay.
Come in.
We're going to finish this up pretty soon.
As you look back on these years, who are the people that you think deserve the most credit for A&M's progress since the mid-'60s?
Oh, that's a tough one.
I don't think you can put your finger on any one or two people.
No.
I think, and I've thought about this fairly recently.
I think to some extent we're still reaping the benefits of some really fine stuff that was done here in the late 70s and early 80s.
When you look at the faculty members who are still bringing a lot of recognition to the campus, a lot of them were here in place at that time.
Nobody has been perfect.
I can think back to former board members who certainly had their flaws and their faults.
Some of them have been really pointed out publicly.
And yet I can see some really good things they did.
And if they did it for the wrong reasons, I don't think they did it.
I don't think so.
um i think that a m has been truly fortunate in we've proven let's put it this way that it didn't really matter who was president uh the kids are the best thing we've got going here and this mystique with the kids
we still get for the most part the kids who come here already with strong values from their families and their churches and their communities and from day one actually before day one we start telling them they're different and we tell them that their whole time they're in school and they buy into it but it's a
It's the kids that really make this place special and unique.
The faculty members, and you know this as well as I do, we get faculty members here and some of them never buy into it, never feel comfortable with it, and generally don't stay very long.
The ones who do and who do feel comfortable with it, whatever,
end up almost as rabid as some of the kids are.
But my hero, the one person in all of this, my hero in studying back and forth is Sterling Evans.
I am personally convinced from what I've read and what I've heard and all that he's
Mr. Evans was the one that wound Rudder up and sent him into battle.
And he's the one that plotted the strategy and what would happen.
So I guess if I have anybody, it would be Sterling Evans.
You'd put him first in the Hall of Honor?
First in the Hall of Honor.
Yeah.
Okay, let's see, two other things then.
What has it meant to you that you've been here at this place all these years?
I can't talk about that.
I can understand that answer.
Because I suspect you're like I might have ended up somewhere else just as easily as here and how different our lives would have been.
All right, an easier question.
No, let me go back to that a little bit.
Mac Prescott told me one time, he was encouraging me to leave.
And you've probably heard him say this.
He said, if you hang around A&M long enough, it'll break your heart.
Mm-hmm.
I hear you.
Let's make believe somebody gives you a million dollar check and the only requirement is you've got to give it to A&M but you decide what's going to be done with it.
If you had a million dollars to give to A&M and you could decide how it's going to be used.
I would
probably give at least half of it to the student retreat center they're wanting to build.
And the other half...
I got this added on the capital campaign and some work has been done.
The other half for endowments for the children of our
uh classified employees who make below a certain amount and i'm not sure what that amount where that should be set below 25 000 something like that we have a lot of folks many of minorities whose own children never dream of coming to school out here and their parents work here their whole life and uh i got it i say i got it at it
to the endowment campaign.
Got Robert on it, and Robert put some of the coke money toward it, but... All right, let's quit with that.
Thank you.
Okay.
I didn't mean to cry.